---
title: Software Bill of Materials in vcpkg
description: This article describes software bill of materials generated by vcpkg.
author: data-queue
ms.author: danshaw2
ms.date: 1/19/2024
ms.topic: reference
---

# Software Bill of Materials in vcpkg

vcpkg generates a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) based on the [Software
Package Data Exchange (SPDX)](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/)
specification. It tracks important information used to build a package, such as
source origin, and aims to provide package consumers with software transparency
and integrity. See this [blog post about SBOM and
SPDX](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/engineering-at-microsoft/generating-software-bills-of-materials-sboms-with-spdx-at-microsoft/)
for more information.

vcpkg generates a SPDX file containing the SBOM information for each package
that is installed. The files are located in
`<installed_dir>/<triplet>/share/<package name>/vcpkg.spdx.json`. The
installation directory depends on whether vcpkg is running on [manifest
mode](../concepts/manifest-mode.md) or [classic
mode](../concepts/classic-mode.md). Since a package can have different
dependencies depending on the target platform, the generated files are separated
by triplet as well.

## vcpkg specific fields
The following fields generated by vcpkg may appear in your SBOM depending on how your package is built.

### name
Refers to the name of the document. This field contains the package name, triplet, version followed by the [ABI hash](../reference/binarycaching.md#abi-hash) used to identify the package.

SPDX Reference: [Document name field](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/document-creation-information/#64-document-name-field)

### creationInfo
Refers to the creator of the document, vcpkg. The `creators` field contains vcpkg followed by the version.

SPDX Reference: [Creator field](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/document-creation-information/#68-creator-field)

### relationships
Contains information about the relationship between vcpkg SPDX elements. `SPDXRef-port` refers to the port, `SPDXRef-file-N` refers to each file in the port including the `portfile.cmake` and `SPDXRef-binary` refers to the binary package. In vcpkg, the binary package is generated by the port.

SPDX Reference: [Relationships field](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/relationships-between-SPDX-elements/)

### packages
Refers to each package generated by vcpkg. `SPDXRef-port` refers to the port, and `SPDXRef-binary` refers to the binary package, and `SPDXRef-resource` refers to any sources used in vcpkg's portfile. vcpkg heuristically generates source information from the `portfile.cmake` by parsing `vcpkg_from_github`, `vcpkg_from_git`, `vcpkg_download_distfile` and `vcpkg_from_sourceforge` calls.

SPDX Reference: [Package information](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/package-information/)

### files

Refers to each of the files in the port. It contains a relative path to the file and a checksum.

SPDX Reference: [File information](https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/file-information/)

## CycloneDX support
vcpkg does not support the CycloneDX SBOM format out of the box. We recommend
using the [CycloneDX CLI tool](https://github.com/CycloneDX/cyclonedx-cli) to convert
the SPDX JSON files generated by vcpkg to the CycloneDX format.

For example:
```console
cyclonedx convert --input-file vcpkg.spdx.json --input-format spdxjson --output-format json --output-file <file>
```

Some vcpkg dependency information may be lost during conversion. Refer to the [CycloneDX 
documentation]((https://github.com/CycloneDX/cyclonedx-cli?tab=readme-ov-file#spdx-format)
for more details.
